{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2818
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 Blog 15: Classification\
\
Introduction\
Classification is a supervised machine learning technique that assigns a category label to an input data point. It\'92s one of the most widely used methods in predictive analytics, as it allows organizations to categorize and make decisions based on data. In this blog, we will explore how classification works, its types, and real-world applications.\
\
What is Classification?\
\
In classification, the goal is to predict the class or category of a given input based on a labeled dataset. A classifier is trained on this labeled data and then used to predict the class for unseen data.\
	1.	Training Data\
	\'95	Training data is a labeled dataset containing inputs (features) and their corresponding labels (categories). The classifier learns to associate inputs with their correct labels during the training phase.\
	\'95	Example: A training dataset for classifying emails into spam and non-spam categories.\
	2.	Testing Data\
	\'95	After training, the classifier is tested on new, unseen data to evaluate its performance. The goal is to measure how well the classifier generalizes to new data.\
	3.	Class Labels\
	\'95	Class labels are the output categories that the classifier predicts. In a binary classification problem, there are two class labels (e.g., spam or not spam), while in multiclass classification, there can be more than two labels.\
\
Common Classification Algorithms\
	1.	Decision Trees\
	\'95	A decision tree builds a tree-like structure to make predictions based on feature values. Each internal node represents a decision based on an attribute, and each leaf node represents a class label.\
	\'95	Example: ID3, C4.5, and CART are common decision tree algorithms.\
	2.	Support Vector Machines (SVM)\
	\'95	SVM tries to find the best decision boundary (hyperplane) that separates different classes. It maximizes the margin between the classes, leading to better generalization.\
	\'95	Example: SVM is widely used in image classification.\
	3.	Na\'efve Bayes\
	\'95	Na\'efve Bayes is a probabilistic classifier based on Bayes\'92 theorem. It assumes that the features are independent of each other.\
	\'95	Example: Na\'efve Bayes is commonly used for text classification tasks like spam detection.\
	4.	K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN)\
	\'95	KNN classifies an input by finding the majority class of its K nearest neighbors in the training data.\
	\'95	Example: KNN is used for classifying handwritten digits in the MNIST dataset.\
\
Evaluation of Classification Models\
\
The performance of classification models can be evaluated using several metrics:\
	1.	Accuracy\
	\'95	Accuracy is the percentage of correct predictions made by the classifier. It\'92s calculated as the ratio of correctly predicted instances to total instances.\
	2.	Precision and Recall\
	\'95	Precision measures how many of the predicted positive instances are actually positive. Recall measures how many of the actual positive instances are correctly predicted.\
	3.	F1-Score\
	\'95	The F1-Score is the harmonic mean of precision and recall and provides a balance between the two metrics.\
	4.	Confusion Matrix\
	\'95	A confusion matrix helps visualize the performance of the classification model by showing the true positives, false positives, true negatives, and false negatives.\
\
Applications of Classification\
	1.	Medical Diagnosis: Classifying patients into disease categories based on their medical history and test results.\
	2.	Credit Scoring: Predicting whether a person is a good or bad credit risk based on financial data.\
	3.	Email Filtering: Classifying emails as spam or non-spam based on their content.\
\
Conclusion\
Classification is a powerful tool for categorizing data, and understanding different algorithms and performance metrics is key to building effective models. Whether it\'92s for email filtering, medical diagnosis, or image recognition, classification plays a pivotal role in real-world machine learning applications.}